# U3km_IndianMonsoon
NCL scripts for analyzing the indian monsoon simulated at resolution of 3 km.
* **src**: Ncar Command Language (NCL) scripts;
* **data**: data of the running of NCL scripts;
  
## code description
### S3_Plt_Rain_Gridded.ncl
South Asian summer monsoon rainfall during active monsoon in 2020. The spatial distributions of mean rainfall (mm day-1) in (a) the observation datasets GPCP and (b) CMORPH, averaged from 11th June to 9th July in 2020. The spatial distributions of mean rainfall difference (mm day-1) between (c) U60km and CMORPH; (d) V4km and U60km; (e) U3km and U60km. The two regions surrounded by red dotted line in a-e indicate the primary rainbelt over the northern India (72.5-92.5oE, 15-25oN) and the secondary rainbelt over the equatorial Indian Ocean (EIO; 50-100oE, 0-10oS) respectively. (f) The mean rainfall average over two rainbelts in observations and experiments above. The area enclosed by the black solid line in d is in a resolution of ~ 4 km, the area outside the black dotted line is in a resolution of ~ 60 km, and the area between two lines is the transition zone.
### S3_Plt_Fig2_Rain3hr_BroadArea_withDiff.ncl
Precipitation intensity spectrum during active monsoon in 2020. (a) the frequency of five rainfall intensity levels in CMORPH, GPM, U60km and U3km, counted from 11th June to 9th July in 2020. The spatial distribution of difference in light rainfall frequency between (b) U60km and CMORPH; (c) U3km and U60km during the same period. The regions surrounded by red dotted line are same as that in Figure 1. 
### S3_Plt_Fig3_UVW.ncl
South Asian summer monsoon circulation during active monsoon in 2020. The horizontal wind field (vectors) and speed (color shading) at 850 hPa in (a) the reanalysis ERA5, the experiment (b) U60km and (c) U3km averaged from 11th June to 9th July in 2020. The areas surrounded by the red dotted lines in a-c indicate the region (70-90oE, 15oS-25oN) where the zonal-mean vertical circulation is analyzed. The zonal-mean vertical circulation (with vertical velocity amplified 500 times, vectors) and vertical velocity (without amplified, color shading) in (d) the reanalysis ERA5, the experiment (e) U60km and (f) U3km, averaged from 11th June to 9th July in 2020.
### S3_Plt_Fig4_Rain3hr_SecArea.ncl
Frequency, accumulated amount and latent heat of precipitation with different intensity levels over the EIO during active monsoon. (a) the frequency of five rainfall intensity levels in CMORPH, GPM, U60km and U3km, counted from 11th June to 9th July in 2020 over the EIO (50-100oE, 0-10oS). (b) The accumulated rainfall of rainfall with different intensities. (c) The column-averaged latent heat released by rainfall with different intensities in U60km and U3km. (d) The contribution (frequency times column-averaged latent heat with the same level) to averaged latent heat by rainfall with different intensities in U60km and U3km.
### S3_Plt_Fig5_UVW_diff.ncl
Impacts of excessive light rain over EIO on south Asian summer monsoon circulation. (a) The difference in zonal-mean vertical circulation (with vertical velocity amplified 500 times, vectors) and vertical velocity (without amplified, color shading) between U60km and U3km, averaged from 11th June to 9th July in 2020. (b) The difference in horizontal wind field (vectors) and geopotential height (color shading) at 850 hPa, averaged from 11th June to 9th July in 2020.
### S3_Plt_3Obs3Sim_Rain.ncl
South Asian summer monsoon rainfall during active monsoon in 2020. The spatial distributions of mean rainfall (mm day-1) in the observation datasets (a) GPCP, (b) CMORPH, (c) GPM and the experiments (d) U60km, (e) V4km, (f) U3km, averaged from 11th June to 9th July in 2020. The two regions surrounded by red dotted line in a-f indicate the primary rainbelt over the northern India (72.5-92.5oE, 15-25oN) and the secondary rainbelt over the equatorial Indian Ocean (EIO; 50-100oE, 0-10oS) respectively.
### S3_Plt_FigS2_PrecipitationFrequency.ncl
Spatial distribution of precipitation frequency during active monsoon in 2020. The spatial distributions of precipitation frequency of few rain (<0.1 mm 3hr-1) in the observation datasets (a) CMORPH, (b) GPM and the experiments (c) U60km, (d) U3km, counted from 11th June to 9th July in 2020. (e-h) The same as (a-d) but for precipitation frequency of light rain (0.1-3 mm 3hr-1). (i-l) The same as (a-d) but for precipitation frequency of moderate rain (3-10 mm 3hr-1). (m-p) The same as (a-d) but for precipitation frequency of heavy rain (10-20 mm 3hr-1). (q-t) The same as (a-d) but for precipitation frequency of torrential rain (>20 mm 3hr-1).
### S3_Plt_MeanT.ncl
Mean air temperature at mid-upper level during active monsoon in 2020. The spatial distributions of mean air temperature from 500hPa to 300hPa (K) in the experiments (a) U60km and (b) U3km, averaged from 11th June to 9th July in 2020. (c) The same as (a) but for difference between U60km and U3km.

